A New Algorithm of Automatic Lung Parenchyma
Segmentation Based on CT Images
Diao Liming
School of computer science and
technology
Shandong economic university
Ji’nan, China
E-mail: liming1658@163.com
Zhang Caiming
School of computer science and
technology
Shandong university
Ji’nan ,China
Email:czhang@sdu.edu.cn
Gao Shanshan
School of computer science and
technology
Shandong economic university
Ji’nan,China
E-mail: gsszxy@yahoo.com.cn
Abstract—We present a new frame of lung parenchyma
segmentation. Optimal threshold value method and the boundary
tracking method are used to get rid of the background
interference and segment the lung region. Then new algorithm is
used for lung region boundary repairing based on the
mathematical morphology method. The experimental results
show the new algorithm can segment lung regions from the chest
CT images automatically and accurately.
Keywords-CT image; lung parenchyma; segmentation; aided
diagnosis
I. INTRODUCTION
With the rapid development of CT technology, CT images
gradually become inspection means of pulmonary diseases in
clinical. But the amount of data of lung inspection obtained is
very large. For example, when the slice thickness is less than
1milimetre, scanning the whole lung, the images obtained will
reach 500 frames using 16-slice helical CT, while using 64-
slice helical CT will receive more than 1000 images. With the
demands of slice thickness and spatial resolution requirements
continue to increase, the amount of data lung inspection
obtained will be greater. Such a huge amount of data will bring
a great challenge to doctor's diagnosis. Therefore, the
computer-aided diagnosis emerged.
The key issue of medical image segmentation is to extract
the image objects or special interest organization, is a
indispensable means of diseased tissue such as qualitative and
quantitative analysis, at the same time is the basic of threedimensional
reconstruction. The 3D reconstruction model
accuracy is directly affected by the qualities of segmentation.
As the characteristic difference between medical imaging
principles and organizing its own, medical image always is
affected such as noise / field offset effect / partial body effect
and the impact of organized campaigns, medical imaging will
be blur and non-uniformity and has other characteristics.
Therefore, result in the image segmentation difficulties.
The lung image was composed mainly of lung parenchyma,
heart, air outside the lung parenchyma, the examining table and
so on. The lung region examined is the lung parenchyma, the
part includes in the lung wall. The lower density of overall lung
parenchyma represents the lower CT value. While the density
of lung wall around lung parenchyma is higher, it represents
the higher CT value in the image. Segment the lung
parenchyma regions efficiently and accurately is the foundation
of lesions extraction. So that the first step of pulmonary
diagnosis through computer-aided based on CT images, is
separating lung region out from the CT images.
Image segmentation methods include thresholding
method[1], region growing algorithm[2], based on edge detecting
methods[3], method for segmenting image based on pattern
classification[4], watershed segmentation method[5], method
based on anatomical model[6] and so on. Thresholding method
is easy and fast for us to carry out, this method is deemed as the
preprocessing used in conjunction with other methods.
Disadvantage of thresholding segmentation method is not
applicable of multi-channel image and characters are not very
different from the images, for gray-scale images do not exist
significant differences or has a bigger overlap region of gray
value images is difficult to get accurate results.. Region
growing algorithm is widely used in medical image
segmentation, method first select a seed point, then turn the
similar pixels around the seed pixel into the seed area. It is
simple, especially for a small segmentation structure. The
disadvantage is need selecting the growing seed points
manually. Based on edge detecting methods is by detecting the
characteristic values of adjacent pixels to obtain the edges
between different regions. Edge point decision would be based
on the detection of point itself and some of its neighboring
points, includes local differential operator, such as the Roberts
gradient operator, Sobel gradient operator and Canny operator
and so on. Based on experiments, it was found that edge
detection method obtains the edge with gap because is not
enough image information, so this method cannot form a
closed curve surrounding objects. Method for segmenting
image based on pattern classification can achieve great results
but it requires large amount of training samples and it needs to
extract image feature classification. The processing result was
highly dependent on the characteristics, and it could take us a
lot of time that could not meet the real time requirement of
clinical diagnosis. Watershed segmentation method requires
several morphological operations and watershed transformation
in the lung region segmentation process, speed deficits, and the
segmentation is not accurate enough. Method based on
anatomical model is a common pattern of medical image
processing. The method improved the automation of medical
976
978-1-61284-459-6/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE
image segmentation, but required to establish a detailed and
complete knowledge model with the help of medical experts.
In order to achieve fully automatic segmentation of thoracic
CT images, this article put forward a new automatic
segmentation of lung parenchyma, according to threshold
processing and mathematical morphology operations.
II. BASIC IDEAS
Lung parenchyma images segmentation was based
primarily on that the CT density of lung parenchyma was
lower, while the pleura surrounding bone, soft tissue,
mediastinum and others’ were higher. The automatic
segmentation process in this article includes global threshold
binarization, extract the boundary to remove the background of
the trunk, threshold binarization after get rid of the background,
lung parenchyma extraction, and lung area repair and so on.
This article presents a new algorithm based on two
binarization operations. It reduced the influence effect of lung
parenchyma to the lung parenchyma boundary, made the
repairing of lung regions easier. It proposes a new repairing
algorithm combining with mathematics morphology, which can
make the repairing of lung parenchyma boundary more
accurately. The detail of the algorithm is as follows.
A. Global threshold binarization
Lower CT values of lung tissue with the surrounding tissue
higher CT value formed a relatively sharp contrast, so as to
higher CT value of the surrounding tissue and lower CT value
of background regions. Therefore, in this article, we use the
optimal threshold value method [7] for each site CT images to
automatically generate optimal threshold value. The basic steps
of the method are as follows:
(1) Set the initial threshold T= (the maximum value of the
image brightness + the minimum value of the image
brightness)/2;
(2) Using T segment the image to get two sets of pixels B
(all the pixel values are less than T) and N (all the pixel values
are greater than T);
(3) Calculate the average value of B and N separately,
mean ??b and ??n.
Fourth: Calculate the new threshold: T= (??b+??n)/2
Fifth: Repeat the second step to the fourth step until the
iterative conditions are met (the iterative difference of T is less
than the scheduled parameters).
Set Tn is the threshold obtained by calculates, Ts is the
final threshold we used. For the main purpose of our next step
is preparing to extract the boundary of trunk, while the pixel
value of outside region of trunk is lower, so in order to ensure
it will be separated correctly, we lower the threshold
appropriately:
Ts= Tn-??T(a fixed value set in advance)
B. Extract the boundary to remove the outside region of the
trunk
After threshold segmentation, there is still strip external
interference in the outside region of the human trunk. Most of
these interferences are caused by the sickbed whose CT values
are similar to bone. We could use the boundary tracking
method[8] to obtain the trunk boundary then calculate the
number of pixels (Nb) outside the trunk and set the value of
these pixels to 0.
C. Threshold binarization after remove the background
interference
Using trunk boundary and original image obtain the image
without interference, and then use the optimal threshold value
method (??.A) again. It’s just let the number of pixels of pixel
set B minus Nb before calculate the average value in the third
step.
D. Lung parenchyma extraction
First, we find the contour of each region using boundary
tracking method[7]. Then calculate the area of each contour and
remove the smaller area according the condition. At last we can
obtain the two largest areas which are the two contours of the
pulmo. Set 1 is the value of inside contour and set 0 is the value
of outside contour. Operation with the original image then we
can get the image of lung parenchyma.
E. Lung region repair
Extracting the lung area is intended to find the tumor area
in the lung area. While some tumor areas were adhere with
tissue and the tumor area would not be included in the lung
area after the binarization, we can’t find the tumor area in the
extracted lung area. As a result, it requires repair the gap of the
lung area, which is put the tumor area in the lung area. The
falling- ball method[9] is the repair algorithm we commonly
use, but the results it gets are likely affected by the radius of
the circle. In this article, we use the mathematical morphology
algorithm[10] to segment this region.
Set f is the input image and b is the structure element then
we define the expansion of b to f is:
(f ?? b)(s) =max{f(s - x) + b(x) | (s - x)??D f, x ??Db}
Define the corrosion of b to f is:
(f ?? b)(s) =min{f(s + x) - b(x) | (s + x)??D f, x ??Db}
Df and Db were the domain of f and b, s and x were space
vector of integer Z2.
Expansion can expand the image morphology and corrosion
can reduce the image morphology. The opening and closing
operations of mathematical morphology were compounded by
expansion and corrosion operations.
Define the opening of b to f is:
f ??b=(f ?? b) ?? b
Define the opening of b to f is:
f ??b=(f ?? b) ?? b
Project supported by the National Science Foundation (60933008)
Shandong Science Foundation (ZR2010FP031)
977
Opening operation can remove the convex domains which
were not corresponding with the structural elements of the
image. Closing operation can fill the concave domains which
were not corresponding with the structural elements of the
image, while retaining those who match the structural
elements. Through a combination using of the opening and
closing operations, we can fill the nodule area of the lung
parenchyma boundary to achieve the purpose of repairing the
lung parenchyma boundary.
When the gap of the contour boundary is minor, it can fill
the gap of the contour boundary after one corrosion and
expansion operation. But as shown, when the gap of the
contour boundary is larger (figure 1), the fewer times of
corrosion and expansion operations fail to achieve the purpose
of repairing the lung parenchyma boundary. For the
characteristics of that expansion can expand the image
morphology and corrosion can reduce the image morphology,
this article proposed a new boundary repair algorithm.
The steps of the algorithms are as follows:
Step 1: Using the fewer and more times of corrosion and
expansion operations respectively to the original image. We
can only use the fewer times of corrosion and expansion
operations once, while the times of the more we can obtain by
experiments.
Step 2: Calculate the area A1, the circumference Z1 after
the fewer times of corrosion and expansion operations and
calculate the area A2, the circumference Z2 after the more
times of corrosion and expansion operations respectively.
Step 3: If Z1>Z2 and A1<A2, get the figure through the
more times of corrosion and expansion operations (figure 1). If
Z1<Z2 and A1<A2, get the figure through the fewer times of
conclusions and expansion operations (figure 2)
Figure 1. Take the more times image.
Figure 2. Take the fewer times image.
III. RESULTS OF THE EXPERIMENT
Each step of the algorithm in this article is automatically,
this reduces the times of man-machine interaction. The result
after these steps is shown in Figure 3(f).
Figure 3. Flow chart of lung parenchyma extraction.
In this article, the data sets we used in experiment are the
clinical CT data sets of 26 patients’ lungs. Data of each layer is
512 ×512 pixels and in the data sets there are 30 to 62 CT
layers. We get 45 CT layers from each patient in average. The
time of processing an image (512??512??50 CT data sets) is
less than 0.5 second (Intel(R) Core(TM) 2 Duo CPU E6500 @
2.33GHz, 2.00GB memory). To 146 stochastic sample pictures,
we can get 139 correctly by using this algorithm. The accurate
rate was 95. 2%.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
This article proposes a new automatic segmentation
algorithm of lung regions. The algorithm is based on the
characteristic that the CT values of lung tissue have significant
difference with the other tissue within the human body. It
obtains the optimal threshold value by using the iterative
methods which have reduced the effect that threshold selection
to the split. In each CT slice, we remove the background
interference and obtain the lung region boundary by using the
boundary tracking algorithm. Finally repair the lung region
boundary by using the mathematical morphology method. The
experiment shows that the automatic segmentation algorithm
can get rid of the background interference and the interference
of the trachea / bronchus within the chest. It can segment the
lung regions from the chest CT images automatically and
accurately. It can be used in the lung area automatic extraction
of computer-aided diagnosis.
Original
image
More times
image
Fewer times
image
Original
image
More times
image
Fewer times
image
??
??
??
(a)Original
image
(c)Trunk
image
(b)First threshold
image
(d)Second
threshold
image
(e)Lung
parenchyma
image
(f)Repaired
lung
parenchyma
image
978
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
From beginning to the end of this article, I obtained careful
guidance from my instructor Professor Zhang Caiming and
teacher Gao Shanshan. Thank Mu Dianwen and other brothers
and sisters who gave me a lot of encouragement and help in the
research process too.
REFERENCES
[1] Hu Xue-gang??Sun Hui-fen??Wang Shun. A New Algorithm of Image
Segmentation Based on Graph Theory[J]. Journal of Sichuan
University(Engineering science edition) ??2010??42??1????138-142(In
Chinese).
[2] Yang Jia,Wu Qi-yao, Tian Jie, et al The implementation and evaluation
of several CT image segmentation algo2rithms [J].Journal of Beijing
Institute of Technology,2000, 20 (6) : 720-724.
[3] Michael H. F. Wilkinson. Optimizing Edge Detectors for Robust
AutomaticThreshold Selection : Coping with Edge Curvature and Noise.
Graphical Models and Image Processing 1998 ,60 :385??401
[4] Zhang D?? Valentino DJ??Segmentation of anatomical structures in XRay
computed tomography images using artifical neural networks ??C
?? . in: Milan Sonka, J Michael Fitzpatrick, eds. Medical imaging
2002:Image processing, proc. SPIE 4684. San Diego, University of
Pennsylvania MedicalCtr ,2002:1640-1652.
[5] Shojaii R, Alirezaie J, Babyn. P. Automatic lung segmentation in CT
images using watershed transform ?? C ?? . In: Gianni Vernazza,
eds.IEEE international conference on image processing . Genoa ,Italy,
university of Genova, 2005:??-1270-3.
[6] YANG Xiaoqiang, LI Bin,WEI shengmin. Method for segmenting
medical image based on anatomical model ??J??. Space Medicine &
Medical Engineering, 2005, 18(1):62-65.
[7] Hu S, Hoffman EA, Reinhardt JM. Automatic segmentation of accurate
quantitation of volumetric x ray ct images ??J??.IEEE Transactions on
medical imaging, 2001,20(6): 490-498.
[8] ZhangYuan peng, DongHai etc. Computer image processing based
technology [M]. Cambridge university press, 1996:129-137(In Chinese).
[9] M. Young, The Technical Writer's Handbook. Mill Valley, CA:
University Science, 1989 Armato Samuel G, Maryellen L . Giger,
Catberine J.Moran, et al. Automated detection of pulmonary nodules in
helical computed tomography images of the thorax ??C??. in: Kenneth
m. Hanson, eds. medical imaging 1998: image processing , proc. SPIE
3338. San Diego, SPIE society of photo optical instrumentation Engi,
1998: 916-919..
[10] Armato S G ??, Giger M L. Three-dimensional approach to lung nodule
detection in helical CT[J] . Proc SPIE , 2000 ,3661 (1) :553 - 559.
979